[Music]
[Applause]
it's a big ask for a bird that can't fly
standing less than half a meter tall but
it's now that rockhoppers live up to
their name incredibly strong toenails
grip the rock the beak makes a good
climbing tool the more experienced
penguins make it look easy but it's a
steep learning curve
[Music]
it takes youngsters a while to get the
hang of it
[Music]
misjudging and it's back to square one
at the top of the cliff the going gets a
little easier
it's his turn to feed so if he leaves
her to look after their eggs
now she must tackle a problem faced by
no other kind of penguin for the next 10
days she must protect her eggs from the
African Sun
a dense coat of feathers that keeps her
warm in cold seas now stifles huh on
these exposed rocks
she must shed her eggs instead of
keeping them warm everything here seems
the wrong way around
for some the soaring temperature is too
much
a neighbor deserts his nest his egg will
not survive
[Music]
he's not the only one to give up some
years not a single chick is reared
[Music]
penguins are adapted to withstand
temperatures of 40 degrees below zero
not 40 degrees above
[Music]
now at the hottest part of the day the
very worst time our chicks are hatching
[Music]
thousands of rockhoppers make this
journey each day in the headland has
attracted an unwelcome visitor
[Music]
a huge male sea lion a hundred times
their size
tossed around the tiny birds do that
best to avoid him
[Music]
each attack is a loss that will affect a
whole family
[Music]
the mother sees her chick for the first
time she's keen to start parenting but
the father needs persuading to surrender
the chick he's been caring for all
winter he must now put his chick and
risk in these temperatures it could
freeze in seconds the male will have to
let go
eventually the transfer to the mother is
safely made
[Music]
the chicks grow quickly on a diet of
fish and squid soon they're keen to
explore they're always with mother in
terror
this chick is less fortunate its mother
has not returned to claim it
another orphan is searching for a new
family but this female already has a
chick of her own
some officers receive too much mothering
from penguins whose own chicks have not
survived the urge to parent is so strong
that they will compete with one another
to adopt any chick they find many of
these squabbles end in tragedy as the
poor choke is trampled to death
those chicks that do have parents
quickly learn survival skills even in
spring they must huddle together for
warmth
just as their fathers did in the depths
of winter
a group of chicks has got lost in the
blizzard cold and disorientated they
search for the colony
[Music]
it will not be long before the storm
claims its first victims
[Music]
by early summer the chicks are
surprisingly well-developed
and now look ready to take on the world
those that survive their first year have
the best possible start in life thanks
to the extraordinary hardships endured
by their parents parents who battled
with the Antarctic winter and one
[Music]
[Applause]
you
[Music]